Acknowledgments
This booklet is the third revision of the Lakes of the High Uintas booklets. The original printing
occurred in 1984, with a revised edition printed in 1996. Because this is a revision, much of the
work presented in this edition was completed by previous biologists and managers who have
since retired. We acknowledge their original work and effort in providing this valuable resource
to the public.

New in this edition
In this edition, fish species for each lake have been updated to the best of our knowledge based
on recent surveys. We have also updated lake acreage by tracing aerial photos of each lake in
ArcMap. There are also tables for brook trout, cutthroat trout and Arctic grayling that provide the
angler an average and maximum length and weight for fish sampled in each lake by the DWR
with gillnets. This table also includes the present stocking cycle for each lake.

Great fisheries depend on you!
Here’s some things you can do to help:
●​ Report unusual circumstances or water conditions to the DWR.
●​ Don’t leave fishing line on the banks.
●​ Carry out trash, keep a garbage sack with you on fishing trips.
●​ Don’t move live fish.
●​ Know fishing rules and obey them.
●​ Be able to explain to others how rules help fishing.

WHITEROCKS RIVER DRAINAGE | 2

Introduction
The Uinta Mountains of northeastern Utah are unique in that they are the highest mountain
range in Utah and the only major range of mountains in the contiguous United States to lie in an
east and west direction. King’s Peak — Utah’s tallest point of land, standing at 13,528 feet — is
hard to distinguish from its sister peaks, all of which are over 13,000 feet in elevation. This is a
country of snow-capped mountains, large alpine basins dotted with lakes, steep rocky slopes,
green meadows and tall trees. Four of Utah’s major rivers, the Duchesne, Provo, Weber and Bear,
originate in the snowfields of these mountains. There are well over 1,000 natural lakes in the
headwater regions of the Uinta Mountains, and more than 500 of these lakes support
populations of sportfish.
The lakes of the Uinta Mountains underwent three study cycles to determine which lakes were
suitable for fish and to develop management recommendations for each lake. During the
original three-phase study, which occurred between 1956 and 1990, biologists surveyed 1,036
lakes. Of this original number of surveyed lakes, 446 lakes are presently being stocked on a
prescribed cycle, 129 have sufficient natural reproduction and do not require stocking, and 461
are fishless. Presently 327 lakes are primarily managed for brook trout, 153 with cutthroat trout,
46 with grayling, 35 with tiger trout, 16 with rainbow trout and three lakes with golden trout. Even
though a lake has a primary species designated for management, many lakes do harbor more
than one species. Tiger muskellunge have also been stocked into several lakes on an
experimental basis in an effort to control natural reproducing brook trout.
Since the last revision of these booklets (in 1996) several changes to fish stocking in the Uinta
Mountains have occurred. Most notably, the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources now stocks
genetically pure native Colorado River cutthroat trout into lakes instead of non-native
Yellowstone cutthroat trout. There are also active ongoing efforts to restore Colorado River
cutthroat trout into portions of their native range in Uinta Mountain streams. Another change
that has occurred is triploid brook trout and rainbow trout are now stocked. These fish are sterile
and cannot reproduce. Lastly, the DWR also started stocking tiger trout, which is a cross
between brown trout and brook trout that are also sterile.
Aircraft are still used to stock these remote lakes. Aerial stocking is designed to replenish
populations or introduce fish into lakes that the DWR surveys have found suitable for
experimental stocking. Care is taken not to overstock lakes because it usually results in small,
poorly developed fish. Because the optimum growing season for trout at these elevations is very
WHITEROCKS RIVER DRAINAGE | 3

short (June through September), growth is relatively slow and trout will reach only 8 to 12 inches
by the third year of life. The more inaccessible lakes are stocked on a 3-to-5-year cycle to
encourage growth, and the heavily fished lakes are stocked on 1-to-2-year cycles to maintain
population levels. Brook trout and cutthroat trout are the predominant species stocked as they
have demonstrated an ability to grow and survive well in these alpine lakes. Rainbow trout,
Arctic grayling and tiger trout can also be found in many Uinta Mountain lakes, adding variety
and beauty to the angler’s experience.

Be prepared
A trip into the High Uintas can be very enjoyable, but may also be uncomfortable or hazardous to
unprepared travelers. As most of the lakes lie in remote basins, it is recommended that trips be
well planned and adequate preparations made beforehand. Always leave word with a friend or
relative on your approximate destination and when you plan to return. Most of these lakes can
be accessed on well-marked U.S. Forest Service trails. Other lakes can only be reached by going
cross-country. However, cross-country travel should be avoided unless the user is familiar with
this type of travel. It is a good idea to carry a GPS unit with topographical maps uploaded for
reference. Alternatively, you can purchase topographical maps from the U.S. Geographical
Survey or U.S. Forest Service. Ordinarily, trips up to 5 miles can be made on foot when the angler
plans to spend only one day on the lake and return home that evening. However, backpackers
who wish to stay overnight can easily reach the more remote lakes. Those wishing to use horses
in the Uintas should study available pastures and springs and plan their trip accordingly.

Hypothermia and other safety precautions
●​ Warm clothing (made from fabrics that dry quickly) and good rain gear should be carried
at all times.
●​ Remember that snow showers are common all seasons at these high elevations, and
temperatures can drop 20 to 30 degrees in a matter of minutes.
●​ Carry instant energy food, such as candy and fruit, and avoid exhaustion.
●​ If you get hot, ventilate to dispel body heat and moisture.
●​ Avoid drinking large quantities of cold water when chilled.
●​ Be sure to carry plenty of insect repellant for camp and horse, at least until mid-August.
●​ Bring sunscreen and lip balm to protect the skin from the intense sunshine of high
elevation.

WHITEROCKS RIVER DRAINAGE | 4

●​ Filter or boil all drinking water since drinking untreated water in the back country may
cause giardia, a parasitic infection which can make you very ill.

High Uintas ethics
Of major concern is maintaining the aesthetic beauty and wilderness appeal of the Uinta
Mountains. Camping, hiking and fishing in the Uinta Mountains continue to increase with
population growth and desire to be outdoors. Excessive recreational pressure can quickly
damage this alpine habitat if conscious efforts are not made to preserve its beauty. Remember
to burn all combustible material and pack out everything that is not burnable. Do not bury any
litter. Pack out refuse left by those less courteous than yourself. Dump wastewater a minimum
of 150 feet from springs, lakes and streams and use biodegradable soap. Select a campsite
carefully and avoid clearing the vegetation or ditching around a tent.
Those entering the High Uinta backcountry should minimize their impact:
●​ Please leave these beautiful mountains and lakes the way you would like to find them
when you return.
●​ Know and obey state fish and wildlife laws.
●​ Know U.S. Forest Service wilderness restrictions and guidelines.
●​ Dump wastewater a minimum of 150 feet from springs, lakes and streams.
●​ Burn combustible materials
●​ Use existing fire rings when possible
●​ Pack out unburnable trash, including plastics and metal foil.
●​ Pack out litter left by those less courteous than yourself.
●​ Leave a clean camp and a dead fire.
●​ Be familiar with leave no trace principles.
It is a good idea to utilize previously constructed fire rings whenever possible. Avoid camping in
one spot longer than five days. Horse packers should carefully select suitable pasture away
from lakes and streams, avoiding wet and boggy areas. It is recommended that horses be
hobbled or picketed to allow grazing over a large area. Picketed animals should be moved
frequently to prevent trampling and beat out circles in meadows. A good wilderness toilet is
made by digging a “cat hole” no deeper than 8 to 10 inches and at least 200 feet from water
sources. Cover human waste with 4 to 6 inches of lightly compacted soil.

WHITEROCKS RIVER DRAINAGE | 5

Large groups encroach upon the solitude of others and have a greater impact upon the
wilderness environment than the same number of users scattered among several parties. In an
effort to control this problem, the USFS has implemented group size restrictions. Parties using
the Primitive Area are not to exceed 14 people and 15 horses. Additionally, remember not to
camp within 200 feet of an occupied campsite, designated trail or water source. Scout groups
and other organizations should remember to check with USFS officials for guidelines and helpful
suggestions. Scout groups may wish to take part in the “Leave No Trace” wilderness training
programs offered by their organization.
Fishing can be unpredictable, especially in the High Uintas. If one lake fails to produce fish, try
another; there is usually one nearby. If the lakes are slow try fly fishing the numerous streams. If
you like elbow room to camp and fish, and enjoy discovering new scenic wonders, let us
recommend the High Uintas.

WHITEROCKS RIVER DRAINAGE | 6

Whiterocks River drainage
Due to the relative ease of vehicular access and its close proximity to Vernal — the largest town
in the Uintah Basin — the drainage of the Whiterocks River is probably one of the most popular
drainages along the south slope of the Uinta Mountains. It is the only drainage on the south
slope where a passenger car can gain access to within two miles of the main Uinta Divide. The
headwater regions of the Whiterocks River drainage are characterized by dense pine stands
interspersed with numerous alpine meadows of various sizes. There are well over 70 natural
lakes and ponds, 47 of which contain fish populations under active management. These lakes
range in size from under 2 acres to nearly 140 acres and from 10,030 feet to over 11,200 feet in
elevation. The highest point in the drainage is an unnamed peak at the very head of Reader
Lakes Basin that stretches to 12,700 feet above sea level. Numerous other mountains, which
ring the drainage, are also well above 12,000 feet in elevation.
State Route 121, which runs west from Vernal and north from Roosevelt, provides access to
points of entry to the Whiterocks River drainage. A short distance east of Lapoint is Paradise
Park Road that heads north from the highway to Paradise Park Campground. Trailheads at
Paradise Park provide access to lakes on the east side of the Whiterocks River drainage and
also those in the Dry Fork drainage to the northeast. The Farm Creek Road heads northwest
from the town of Whiterocks to the base of Pole Mountain and the eastern side of the Elkhorn
Loop road (FR 117). Forest Road 110 to Chepeta Lake splits off FR 117 just before Pole Creek
campground. There are a number of both major and minor trailheads along this dirt road. The
campground at Pole Creek Lake is a good place from which to hike to the Rock Lakes area.
Along FR 110, the West Fork Trailhead provides access to the popular Cleveland/Queant Lakes
area and also to the lakes of the Uinta River drainage across Fox-Queant Pass. Lakes of Reader
Basin are accessible via a minor trailhead at Reader Creek. There is a trailhead approximately
0.5 mile before the end of the road at Chepeta Lake that provides access to Reader Basin and to
lakes in the East Fork Whiterocks River drainage. There is also parking at the end of the road at
Chepeta Lake to access lakes north of Chepeta. These main trails and other secondary trails are
identified on the drainage map by trail number.
Lakes of the Whiterocks drainage receive a substantial amount of fishing pressure; but, as is
common in other drainages, most of it is directed to only a handful of waters. Relatively few
anglers bother to make a trek to Rock Lakes even though that area is fairly close to the Pole
Creek Campground. The West Fork Trailhead receives considerable use, but most angling
pressure in the West Fork area is localized in the Queant Lake vicinity. The cluster of waters
WHITEROCKS RIVER DRAINAGE | 7

around Chepeta Lake are relatively popular but not nearly as much as Chepeta itself. With the
exception of Ted’s Lake, most waters on the eastern side of the drainage receive very little
angling pressure.
Between 2010 and 2022, DWR personnel from the Northeastern Region office surveyed 34 of
the 47 lakes in the drainage. Brook trout are the most abundant species in the Whiterocks
drainage, although cutthroat trout are also found in quite a few waters. Arctic grayling are found
in six lakes and tiger trout are stocked into two lakes. Colorado River cutthroat restoration
projects have occurred on Reader and Lynn creeks recently. Colorado River cutthroat trout
populations with relatively high genetic purity can also be found in the East Fork Whiterocks
River and main stem Whiterocks River downstream from Chepeta.
USGS topographic maps applicable to the Whiterocks River drainage include the Chepeta Lake,
Paradise Park, Rasmussen Lakes and Whiterocks Lake quadrangles. Small portions of the
drainage are also found on the Bollie Lake and Fox Lake quadrangles. It is also a good idea to
consult the Ashley National Forest website (fs.usda.gov/r04/ashley) for the latest Motor Vehicle
Use Map published by the Ashley National Forest. The Whiterocks River drainage has been
damaged in a number of areas by the irresponsible use of off-highway vehicles. The Motor
Vehicle Use Map tells you where OHV use is permitted.

Angel Lake, WR-19
Angel Lake sits at an elevation of 10,407 feet, has a maximum depth of 17 feet and is 11.4
surface acres. The lake is located at the bottom of a shallow cirque 0.7 mile south of the West
Fork Whiterocks Trailhead. Intermittent springs are located on the west side of the lake. The
area surrounding the lake is quite rocky. There is no horse feed and campsites are very scarce.
The closest access is from the Rassmussen Lakes OHV trail. This OHV trail begins 0.2 mile
south of the road to the West Fork Whiterocks Trailhead on the west side of the Chepeta Lake
Road. Follow the OHV trail for about 0.5 mile to the second left fork in the road. Take the second
fork from the main Rassmussen Lake road and follow for 0.1 mile to another fork. Take this for a
couple hundred yards and park. From this point the lake lies approximately 0.3 mile in a
southwesterly direction. Find the sparsely marked trail or scramble through timber and boulders
to get to the lake. Angel Lake contains a naturally reproducing grayling population and is
stocked periodically with cutthroat trout. Fishing pressure is moderate on this regularly visited
water.

WHITEROCKS RIVER DRAINAGE | 8

Ann Lake, WR-74
Ann Lake sits at an elevation of 10,910 feet, has a maximum depth of 14 feet and is 3.4 surface
acres. The lake is located at the head of Rassmussen Lakes Basin four miles west of the West
Fork Whiterocks Trailhead. Ann Lake lies at the base of a talus slope 0.5 mile northwest of Eric
Lake. A few springs enter the lake on its northeast corner. There are no maintained trails in the
basin and horse access, although possible, is moderately difficult. There are two ways to access
the lake. The closest access is the Rassmussen Lake OHV trail described above for Angel Lake
access. Instead of taking the forks for Angel Lake access, continue on the main road 2.2 miles
to the end. From the end of the road follow the retired logging road into the old timber harvest
cutting to the north then follow the ridge and logging road west towards Eric and Nellie lakes.
Eventually the old logging road ends, but continue through the timber to the first meadow (1 mile
distance from the end of the road) with the outlet to Eric Lake. Follow this stream upstream to
Eric Lake (1.2 miles) and to Nellie Lake for another 0.5 mile. Ann Lake is 0.1 mile north of Nellie
Lake. An alternative route is to start from the West Fork Whiterocks Trailhead and follow the trail
north for 1.0 miles to the confluence with the Eric Lake outlet and the West Fork Whiterocks.
From here leave the trail and follow the outlet upstream for approximately 3.0 miles through
timber and meadow to Nellie Lake. Best campsites and horse feed can be found further east on
the basin floor. A few springs enter the lake on its northeast corner. Ann Lake winterkills
regularly but is stocked with cutthroat trout every three years. Fishing pressure is very light.

Becky Lake, WR-14
Becky Lake sits on a high, rocky bench overlooking Rasmussen Lakes Basin, 1 mile west of
Rasmussen Lakes. The lake sits at the base of a talus slope at 10,960 feet in elevation and is 6.2
surface acres with a maximum depth of 24 feet. To access Becky Lake see description for
Rasmussen Lakes and Ann Lake (to access from Eric Lake). From Rasmussen 1 Lake, head
west for 1.3 miles to Becky Lake. Becky Lake is in the next bowl west southwest from
Rasmussen 1 Lake. From Eric Lake head due south for 0.5 mile to the lake. There is no trail and
both routes are cross country through downed timber and rocky terrain. Horse access is difficult
and not recommended. There are no good campsites or spring water near the lake. Campsites,
spring water and horse feed in this little valley are almost completely restricted to the valley
bottoms. Becky Lake is stocked with brook trout and receives very little fishing pressure.

WHITEROCKS RIVER DRAINAGE | 9

Chepeta Lake, WR-64
Chepeta is a reservoir that is the largest water in the Whiterocks River drainage. The lake sits at
an elevation of 10,560 feet, and at full pool has a maximum depth of 55 feet, and is 135 surface
acres. The lake is regularly drawn down for irrigation, particularly in late summer. Access to the
lake is by vehicle, making it a popular destination for day outings and extended camping. To
access the lake take the Elkhorn Loop road from either the Farm Creek or Uinta Canyon side.
From the Farm Creek side the road winds up the mountain and at 0.6 mile before you get to Pole
Creek campground the road to Chepeta is on the right. From the Uinta side go 0.6 mile past the
Pole Creek Campground to get to the Chepeta Lake road. From this point the road takes you to a
parking area 200 yards south of Chepeta Lake. Campsites are plentiful in the area and abundant
horse feed is located south of the lake. There are a few springs in the area; however, their quality
is questionable due to the heavy recreational use. The Chepeta Lake trailhead, located 0.5 mile
south of Chepeta Lake parking, provides access to lakes in the East Fork Whiterocks and the
Reader Lakes area to the west. Chepeta Lake is stocked with cutthroat trout but also supports
brook trout sustained through natural reproduction. Fishing pressure is quite heavy, particularly
on weekends.

Cirque Lake, WR-33
This shallow pond lies, as the name implies, in a cirque 0.4 mile southwest of Rasmussen
Lakes. The lake sits 10,652 feet in elevation and is 5.7 surface acres with a maximum depth of
10 feet. To access Cirque Lake see description for Rasmussen Lakes. From Rasmussen 1 Lake,
head southwest through downed timber for 0.3 mile to Cirque Lake. The lake is located at the
toe of a massive rock glacier and can be turbid. It has also been winterkilled in the past. A few
passable campsites are found in the immediate area but spring water is scarce. The lake is
inaccessible by horseback. Grayling are stocked into the lake every three years and fishing
pressure is very light.

Cleveland Lake, WR-7
Cleveland Lake is located next to the West Fork Whiterocks Trail approximately 4 miles north
from the trailhead. The lake sits at an elevation of 10,640 feet and is 23.1 surface acres with a
maximum depth of only 6 feet. Good campsites and abundant horse feed are found in the area,
but there are no springs in the immediate area. Cleveland Lake is stocked with brook trout every
five years. Cutthroat trout occupied the lake in the past but none were caught during the most

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 10

recent survey in 2021. Cleveland Lake receives a fair amount of fishing pressure due to the close
proximity of the lake to the trail and the popular Queant Lake area, 0.5 mile to the east.

Cliff Lake, WR-49
Cliff Lake is a large, reservoired lake that lies at the base of a talus slope in the southeastern
portion of the Whiterocks River drainage. Access to the lake is via vehicle, preferably an ATV, but
still possible with a high-clearance four-wheel-drive vehicle. From Paradise Park Campground
follow the road west past the guard station (FR 104). Initially the road will be fine, but will turn
into an OHV trail requiring four-wheel drive. The road will eventually connect into an OHV trail
that follows Johnson Creek and eventually terminates near Cliff Lake. From the end of the road
follow the canal downstream 100 yards or so to Cliff Lake. The lake sits at an elevation of
10,348 feet and is 68 surface acres at full pool with a maximum depth of 55 feet. Campsites are
scarce in the rocky, heavily timbered terrain. There are no springs or horse feed in the immediate
area. Cliff Lake is stocked with brook and tiger trout. An occasional cutthroat trout may also be
caught. Fishing pressure is moderate.

Dead Lake, WR-29
Dead Lake is an irregularly-shaped shallow pond that sits in a narrow, timbered draw north of the
Paradise Campground and 0.2 mile east of Paradise Reservoir. The lake sits at 10,075 feet in
elevation with a maximum depth of 15 feet and surface area of 9.7 acres. To access the lake
take the Paradise Park Road from state Route 121 (just east of Lapoint) to Paradise
Campground. From the Campground hike along the east side of Paradise Reservoir for 0.2 mile
then cut east through timber for another 0.2 mile to Dead Lake. Several campsites are found in
the area but there is no spring water or horse feed. Grayling are stocked in the lake every three
years and the lake receives moderate fishing pressure.

Deadfall Lake
Deadfall Lake is a shallow pond that sits on a bench on the west ridge of the East Fork
Whiterocks River drainage just off the Chepeta Lake Road. The lake sits at 9,809 feet in elevation
and is 5.2 surface acres. Maximum depth is unknown. To access the lake, take the Elkhorn Loop
Road from either the Farm Creek or Uinta Canyon side and turn onto the Chepeta Lake road near
Pole Creek Campground (see Chepeta access description). Follow the Chepeta Lake road past
the West Fork Whiterocks River crossing and just past the RC Lake road and park. Deadfall is
east of the road 0.1 mile down a relatively steep slope covered with downed timber. Sometime
in the 1990s a microburst wind swept across the canyon that felled most of the trees in a 0.5
W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 11

mile swath from below Angel Lake on the west to the rim of the East Fork Whiterocks River in
the east. Hence the name Deadfall for this lake. There are no campsites, spring water or horse
feed at the lake. This lake was not surveyed during any of the phases of the original surveys.
Grayling were stocked experimentally in 2020 and did survive at least two winters. Grayling will
continue to be stocked every three years. At this point fishing pressure is very light.

Denise Lake, WR-9
Denise Lake is located on a high bench in the West Fork Whiterocks River drainage 1.3 miles
northeast of Queant Lake. The lake sits at 11,160 feet in elevation and is 3.1 surface acres with
a maximum depth of nine feet. It can be accessed from the West Fork, RC Lake Road, Reader
Creek or Chepeta Lake trailheads. Total distance for each of these access points is
approximately 5.9, 3.9, 4.1 and 4.5 miles. For access from the West Fork Trailhead or RC Lake
Road see description for Queant Lake. From Queant Lake follow the large meadow on the east
side of Queant in a northeast direction for 1.3 miles to Denise Lake. From the Reader Creek
Trailhead follow the trail north to the Highline trail junction then follow the Highline Trail up the
ridge west of Reader Lakes Basin. From the Chepeta Lake Trailhead take the highline trail west
and up the same ridge after crossing Reader Creek. During dry years good campsites are
available in the edges of a small, grassy meadow on the lake’s north shore. These areas are
often too wet for comfortable camping any other time. The meadow provides a little horse feed
and there is a small spring on the northeast shore. Fishing pressure is fairly light for stocked
brook trout.

Dollar Lake, WR-43
Dollar Lake is a natural lake that sits against a talus slope in the East Fork Whiterocks River
drainage 0.5 mile south of Whiterocks Lake. The lake sits at 10,500 feet in elevation and is 7.3
surface acres with a maximum depth of 15 feet. To access the lake from Chepeta Lake follow
the trail east along the south flank or Rose Peak. The trail passes alternately through meadow
and pines. Eventually you break out of the trees to the grassy meadows of the East Fork
Whiterocks River. Dollar Lake lies cross-country at the base of the ridge to the south. Campsites
and horse feed are scarce in the rocky terrain surrounding the lake. There is no spring water at
the lake. The best areas for camping and pasture are in the valley of the East Fork. Dollar Lake
supports a naturally reproducing population of brook trout. Cutthroat trout have also been
present in the past but the lake has not been surveyed since 1991. Fishing pressure is light to
moderate.

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 12

Elbow Lake, WR-58
This fairly large, picturesque lake is located at the base of a steep cliff approximately one mile
west of Chepeta Lake. Elbow Lake sits at 10,910 feet in elevation and is 27.4 surface acres with
a maximum depth of 27 feet. There is no trail to Elbow Lake so access is cross country up the
slope west of Chepeta through downed timber and rocks. A more certain route is to follow the
west shoreline of Chepeta Lake to the lake’s northwest corner where the Elbow Lake outlet
enters Chepeta. Following the outlet up to Elbow Lake is still rough going but the odds of
becoming disoriented are lessened. Alternatively, you can also take the old Highline Trail across
the Chepeta Lake Dam west 1.3 miles to Sharlee Lake. Elbow Lake sits 0.5 mile north of Sharlee
Lake. Good campsites are found primarily along the west side of the lake. Springs are located
along the lake’s southwestern tip and horse feed is fairly scarce. Elbow Lake is stocked with
brook trout and fishing pressure is moderate.

Eric Lake, WR-76
Eric Lake is two small, on-stream ponds located on the main drainage stream of Rasmussen
Lakes Basin. The lake sits at 10,610 feet in elevation and is 4.2 surface acres with a maximum
depth of only six feet. For access see the Ann Lake description. Eric Lake is approximately 2.1
miles from the end of Rasmussen Lakes Road or 3.5 miles west of the West Fork Trailhead.
Both ponds are nearly completely surrounded by wet meadow, which makes for great fly casting
and soggy feet. Campsites and horse feed are fairly common and there is a spring on the lake’s
south side. The lake supports populations of both brook and cutthroat trout sustained through
natural reproduction. Fishing pressure is light.

Figure Eight Lake, WR-56
Figure Eight Lake is a shallow, hourglass shaped lake that sits on a rocky bench 0.1 mile
northwest of Chepeta Lake. The lake sits at 10,660 feet in elevation and is 3.6 surface acres
with a maximum depth of only five feet. For access, hike across the dam and around the west
shoreline of Chepeta Lake to the Figure Eight Lake outlet in the northwest corner of the lake.
Follow the outlet upstream to Figure Eight Lake. Total distance is approximately 1.3 miles from
the Chepeta Lake parking area depending on how full Chepeta Lake is. A few campsites can be
found in the rough terrain surrounding the lake, but horse access is difficult. Spring water is also
available. A naturally reproducing population of Colorado River cutthroat trout inhabit the lake.
Fishing pressure is light.

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 13

Hell Hole Lake, WR-65
Hell Hole Lake is a shallow, natural lake located on a high bench on the northwest side of Reader
Lakes Basin. The lake sits at 10,760 feet in elevation and is 5.4 surface acres with a maximum
depth of only 3 feet. To access the lake use the Reader Creek Trailhead and take the trail north
to the top of the second large meadow approximately 1.5 miles from the trailhead. At the head
of this meadow the tributary from Hell Hole Lake enters Reader Creek in the northwest corner.
Follow the tributary for another 0.5 mile to Hell Hole Lake. There are a few campsites at the lake
and spring water on the west side of the lake. Plenty of horse feed is found in the meadows
surrounding the lake. Hell Hole Lake is prone to winterkill. Fishing pressure is light for stocked
cutthroat trout. Additional fish do migrate into the lake from the outlet.

Hidden Lake, WR-63
Hidden Lake is located at the base of a rocky knob 0.25 mile west of the Chepeta Lake Road
where Lynn Creek crosses the road. The lake sits at an elevation of 10,350 feet, and is 13.2
surface acres with a maximum depth of 45 feet. The lake is surrounded by timber and is difficult
to fly fish without waders or a willingness to get wet. A trail to the lake begins approximately 100
yards south of where Lynn Creek crosses the road. Although the trail bypasses the lake itself a
sign points to its general direction. There are a few campsites, but horse feed is scarce in the
immediate vicinity. Springs are located along the shoreline. Fishing pressure is moderate for
stocked cutthroat trout.

Horseshoe Lake, WR-67
Horseshoe Lake is located at the toe of a rocky bluff in Reader Lakes Basin, 3 miles from the
Chepeta Lake Trailhead and 2.6 miles from the trailhead at Reader Creek. The lake sits at 10,860
feet in elevation and is 11.3 surface acres with a maximum depth of 14 feet. To access the lake
take the Highline Trail from the Chepeta Lake Trailhead or from the trailhead at Reader Creek to
the large meadow at the head of the drainage. From the trailhead at Reader Creek this will be the
third large meadow along the trail. At the bottom of this meadow the Highline Trail and Reader
Creek Trail join. From this intersection continue cross country up the wet and rocky meadow
north 0.5 mile to Horseshoe Lake. Spring water and campsites are available at the lake. There is
ample horse feed in the large meadow west of the lake. The lake is stocked with cutthroat trout
and fishing pressure is light to moderate.

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 14

Johnson Lake, WR-30
Johnson Lake is a shallow pond located approximately 2.5 northwest of Paradise Campground.
From Paradise Park Campground follow the road west past the guard station (FR 104) for about
4.5 miles. There will be an old logging road on the right. Either park and walk from here or
continue on the logging road for another 0.4 mile until you are near the meadow where Lily Lake
is. From Lily Lake follow the inlet channel for 1 mile upstream to Johnson Lake. The lake sits at
10,780 feet in elevation and is 6.2 surface acres with a maximum depth of 8 feet. There is no
spring water, but both campsites and horse feed are available near the lake. We began stocking
Johnson Lake experimentally with grayling in 2021 and survival of these fish has not been
evaluated. Check with the DWR office in Vernal for the status of this lake.

Katy Lake, WR-34
Katy Lake is a natural, glacial lake located in a high, rocky cirque 1 mile northwest of Point Lake
in the West Fork Whiterocks River drainage. The lake sits at 11,200 feet in elevation and is 9.0
surface acres with a maximum depth of 45 feet. To access, take the trail north from the West
Fork Trailhead until you are east of the ridge where Lake lies (approximately 2.7 miles). Cut over
to Point Lake then hike around the base of the ridge north and west to Katy Lake. The lake is
surrounded by talus, rocky meadow and low, scraggly willows. Campsites and horse feed are
scarce in open, wind-swept, rough terrain. There are no springs in this well-drained area. This
cold, remote lake is stocked with cutthroat trout. Fishing pressure is very light. Katy Lake is a
good lake to visit and be by yourself.

Larvae Lake, WR-12
Larvae Lake is an elongated pond surrounded by dense conifers one mile due east of the Pole
Creek Campground. The Lake sits at an elevation of 10,030 feet and is 5.4 surface acres with a
maximum depth of 29 feet. To access the lake park along the Chepeta Lake Road approximately
0.3 mile east of the intersection with the Elkhorn Loop road. The lake is just over 0.10 mile to the
southeast from this point. There is no spring water, but both campsites and horse feed are
available near the lake. Larvae Lake is stocked every other year with brook trout and may
winterkill from time to time. Fishing pressure is moderate.

Lower Rock Lake, WR-17
Lower Rock Lake located approximately 1 mile northwest of Pole Creek Lake. The easiest way
to access the lake is to follow the inlet of Pole Creek Lake upstream to a large, wet meadow 0.5
W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 15

mile north of the road. Skirt off the south side of the meadow and follow the outlet of Lower
Rock Lake through heavy timber to the lake. The lake sits at an elevation of 10,550 feet and is
19.2 surface acres with a maximum depth of 39 feet. The lake is surrounded by rocks and heavy
stands of pine with little open shoreline. There are only a few campsites at the lake. The best
bets for campsites and horse feed are in the meadows east of the lake. Spring water can be
found on the lake’s southwest shore. The lake is stocked with tiger trout and contains brook
trout sustained through natural reproduction. Fishing pressure is relatively light considering the
close proximity to the popular Pole Creek area.

Middle Rock Lake, WR-16
Middle Rock Lake is the smallest of the chain of lakes northwest of Pole Creek Lake and
Campground. It is located a scant 200 yards north of Lower Rock Lake. Access is described
above for Lower Rock Lake. The lake sits at an elevation of 10,580 feet and is 7.1 surface acres
with a maximum depth of 10 feet. Middle Rock Lake is encircled by timber and large rocks, with
little open shoreline. Campsites are difficult to find and the terrain is hard to negotiate on
horseback. As with Lower Rock Lake, the best overnight amenities are found in the meadow to
the east. There are no springs feeding the lake. Fishing pressure is moderately light for stocked
cutthroat trout.

Moccasin Lake, WR-53
Moccasin is an irregularly shaped, reservoired lake that lies at the bottom of a talus slope 0.3
mile east of Chepeta Reservoir. The outlet to Moccasin Lake is the first stream on the east side
of Chepeta, north of the dam. To access the lake park at the Chepeta Lake dam and follow the
trail that parallels the Moccasin Lake outlet for 0.25 mile to the lake. Moccasin sits at an
elevation of 10,620 feet and is 18.9 surface acres with a maximum depth of 27 feet. Campsites
can be found in the area but spring water is unavailable. The best horse feed and camping area
is located south of Chepeta Lake. Moccasin Lake supports a naturally reproducing population of
brook trout. The lake also supports some cutthroat trout. Fishing pressure is moderate to heavy.

Nellie Lake, WR-75
Nellie is a small on-stream pond that sits near the head of Rasmussen Lakes Basin 0.4 mile
west of Eric Lake. There are no maintained trails in this basin. Total distance from the West Fork
Whiterocks Trailhead is approximately 3.7 miles. For access description see access description
for Ann Lake. The lake sits at 10,691 feet in elevation and is 2.7 surface acres with a maximum
depth of eight feet. Campsites are very scarce. What little horse feed that is present is confined
W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 16

to the lakes margins. A small spring is located on the lake’s northwest shore. Fishing pressure is
light for stocked cutthroat trout and for brook trout invading from downstream.

Ogden Lake, WR-5
Ogden is an oval-shaped natural lake, sitting at the bottom of a steep cliff, 0.6 mile northwest of
Queant Lake. The lake sits at 10,900 feet in elevation and is 13.9 surface acres with a maximum
depth of 21 feet. There are a few ways to access the lake. First from the West Fork Whiterocks
Trailhead follow the trail to Queant Lake. The trail to Queant forks from the main trail
approximately 0.3 mile before Cleveland Lake. There is also a trail to Queant that begins on the
east side of Cleveland Lake. From Queant Lake travel northwesterly upslope through rocky
terrain and downed timber to Ogden Lake. Alternatively, you can continue up the West Fork Trail
past Cleveland Lake until the trail crosses the south bank of the West Fork Whiterocks. After this
point continue on the north side of the stream and trend through a series of small meadows.
You’ll eventually find the outlet to Ogden Lake and follow it to the lake. Both of these routes are
approximately 5 miles from the West Fork Whiterocks Trailhead. Lastly is the old RC Lake road
that begins 0.8 mile east of where the West Fork Whiterocks River crosses the Chepeta Lake
road. From the end of this road follow the trail past RC Lake to Queant Lake then upslope from
the lake as described above. Total distance from this route is 3.8 miles. Campsites are plentiful
and there is excellent horse feed in the meadow below the lake. There is a spring that enters the
lake on the north shore. Ogden Lake is stocked with cutthroat trout, but has been known to
winterkill in the past. Fishing pressure is light to moderate.

Papoose Lake, WR-52
Papoose Lake is a long, narrow impounded water that sits at the bottom of a talus slope 150
yards north of Moccasin Lake northeast of Chepeta Lake. The lake sits at 10,607 feet in
elevation and is 16.8 surface acres with a maximum depth of 11 feet near the dam. Much of the
lake is not over five feet deep. Access is from Chepeta Lake parking area at the dam. Take the
trail north to Moccasin Lake then continue on to Papoose Lake. A number of passable
campsites can be found on the west side of the lake while springs are located along the rock
slides on the northeastern shore. There is very little horse feed due to the rocky terrain. A
self-sustaining population of brook trout inhabit the lake. Cutthroat trout have also been present
in the past but no recent survey has occurred to verify they are still present. Fishing pressure is
moderate.

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 17

Paradise Park Reservoir, WR-18
Paradise Park Reservoir is a large impounded lake 26 miles north of the town of Lapoint. A
Forest Service campground and guard station are located near the lake. Paradise Park Reservoir
is not considered a high lake for management purposes. The lake is stocked with catchable-size
rainbow trout and also harbors a naturally reproducing population of brook trout. Recreational
use is very heavy.

Pearl Lake, WR-45
Pearl Lake lies at the head of the East Fork Whiterocks River in a small basin at the base of the
Uinta divide, east of Chepeta Lake. The lake sits at 10,700 feet in elevation and is 7.9 surface
acres with a maximum depth of 15 feet. To access the lake, park at the Chepeta Lake Dam
parking area or at the Chepeta Lake Trailhead and take the highline trail east. At approximately
2.6 miles the trail crosses a long, narrow meadow with a small tributary of the East Fork
Whiterocks. Follow this meadow and tributary in a northeast direction for another 0.9 mile to
Pearl Lake. Campsites and spring water can be found near the lake and there is horse feed in
the meadow to the north and west of the lake. Pearl Lake supports a brook trout population
sustained through natural reproduction. There have also been cutthroat trout present in the past,
but none were caught during the most recent survey. Cutthroat trout will be stocked periodically
and may regain a small presence in the lake. Fishing pressure is very light.

Point Lake, WR-6
Point Lake is an elongated lake that lies on a high, rocky bench below the tip of the mountain
ridge that separates Rasmussen Lakes Basin from the Cleveland Lake area. The lake sits at
10,720 feet in elevation and is 16.1 surface acres with a maximum depth of 21 feet. There is no
trail to the lake, however access is straightforward. Just follow the trail north from the West Fork
Trailhead to the confluence of the West Fork Whiterocks River and Point Lake outlet at
approximately the 2.8 mile mark. Follow the outlet upstream to Point Lake. There are few good
campsites, due to the rough, rocky terrain. For the same reason horse access is also difficult.
Better campsites and horse feed are located to the east along the West Fork Whiterocks River.
Springs are located northwest of the lake along the bottom of the talus slope. Point Lake is
stocked with brook trout and a few cutthroat trout also inhabit the lake. Fishing pressure is light
to moderate.

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 18

Pole Creek Lake, WR-13
This water is not technically considered to be a high lake for management purposes. A U.S.
Forest Service campground is located at the lake. Pole Creek Lake is accessed via the Elkhorn
Loop Road from either the Farm Creek or Uinta Canyon side. It is approximately 15 miles from
the Farm Creek side and 11 miles from the Uinta Canyon side. The lake is stocked annually with
tiger trout and harbors brook trout sustained through natural reproduction. Recreational use is
moderate.

Queant Lake, WR-4
Queant Lake is a large, natural lake, located in the West Fork Whiterocks River drainage that is
probably the most popular lake not accessible by vehicle in the entire Whiterocks River drainage.
The lake sits at an elevation of 10,652 feet and is 55.4 surface acres with a maximum depth of
44 feet. For access to the lake see the description for Ogden Lake access above. Total distance
from the West Fork trailhead is 4 miles. Campsites and horse feed are abundant near the lake. A
few springs are present, primarily along the lake’s northern shore. Fishing pressure is heavy for
stocked brook trout.

Rasmussen 1, WR-35
Rasmussen 1, the slightly larger of the two Rasmussen Lakes, is located in a rocky, timbered
basin, 2 miles west of the West Fork Whiterocks Trailhead. The lake sits at elevation 10,473 feet
and is 14.6 surface acres with a maximum depth of only 5 feet. To access the lake, take the
Rasmussen Lake OHV trail as described for Angel and Ann Lakes. From the end of the road walk
0.4 mile west through downed timber and rocky terrain to Rasmussen 2 Lake, then skirt around
the north shore of the lake to the west inlet and follow this inlet up the slope to Rasmussen 1
Lake. Campsites are fairly numerous, primarily on the eastern side of the lake. However, there is
no spring water and little horse feed. Fishing pressure is moderate for stocked brook trout.

Rasmussen 2, WR-36
Rasmussen 2 Lake is an irregularly shaped, natural lake that sits a short distance southeast of
Rasmussen 1 in Rasmussen Lakes Basin. The lake sits at elevation 10,620 feet and is 16.3
surface acres with a maximum depth of 8 feet. Access to the lake is described above for
Rasmussen 1 Lake. A few campsites can be found around the lake, but there is no horse feed or
spring water. Fishing pressure is moderate for stocked brook trout.

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 19

R.C. No. 1, WR-2
This lake is located below a steep talus slope along the east side of the West Fork Whiterocks
River drainage. The lake sits at elevation 10,630 feet and is 9.3 surface acres with a maximum
depth of 16 feet. An old logging road formerly would take you almost all the way to the lake,
however, in the early 1990s the USFS closed the last 1.3 miles of the road to the lake. The R.C.
Lakes Road is located 0.8 mile from where the West Fork Whiterocks River crosses the Chepeta
Lake Road on the north side. Initially this road appears quite rough, but once you make the initial
small climb it really isn’t too bad. Follow the road for 2.3 miles to a small parking area then walk
the remaining 1.3 miles to the lake. Campsites and old fire pits are numerous, but there is no
spring water or horse feed. The lake occasionally does winterkill. Fishing pressure is light for
stocked cutthroat trout.

R.C. No. 2, WR-3
A small shallow pond located west of its much larger brother, R.C. No. 2 provides only marginal
fish habitat. Access and camping amenities are as described for R.C. No. 1. The lake is 1.7
surface acres, 10,620 feet in elevation, with a maximum depth of 7 feet. The lake is not stocked
and relies on migration from R.C. No. 1 for fish.

Robb Lake, WR-1
This shallow, cirque lake is located at the head of the West Fork Whiterocks drainage along the
trail just below Fox-Queant Pass. Robb Lake sits at elevation 11,060 feet and is 3.9 surface
acres with a maximum depth of only 5 feet. To access the lake, park at the West Fork
Whiterocks Trailhead and follow the trail north 5.7 miles to the lake. Robb Lake is surrounded by
talus slopes and boulder fields, and the shoreline is open in most spots. There are no decent
campsites or spring water. Horse feed is found along the West Fork Whiterocks. Robb Lake is
stocked with brook trout, but due to the lack of deeper water and poor water exchange may
winterkill from time to time. Fishing pressure is light.

Sand Lake, WR-42
Sand Lake is a shallow pond lying at the bottom of a talus slope 0.6 mile northeast of Ted’s
Lake. The lake sits at 10,435 feet in elevation and is 6.2 surface acres with a maximum depth of
only 4.5 feet. To access, park at the Chepeta Lake Trailhead and follow the Highline Trail east to
Ted’s Lake a distance of approximately 3.2 miles. From Ted’s Lake follow the long winding
W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 20

meadow that begins on the northeast end of the lake for 0.6 mile to Sand Lake. An alternate
route would be to take the OHV road to Cliff Lake (see description for Cliff Lake access) and
take the trail to Ted’s Lake from there. Total hiking distance from this access point to Sand Lake
is 3.2 miles. The area around Sand Lake is relatively flat and good campsites are abundant.
Horse feed is excellent and a small spring is located near the outlet of the lake. Sand Lake
supports a population of pan-size brook trout sustained by natural reproduction. Cutthroat trout
also inhabit the lake though numbers have dwindled. Fishing should be fast and pressure is
lightly moderate.

Saucer Lake, WR-41
This lake is a small, shallow pond located on a heavily timbered bench 0.4 mile east of Ted’s
Lake on the East Fork drainage (see Ted’s Lake access). Saucer is 4.5 acres, 10,500 feet in
elevation, with a maximum depth of 4.5 feet. A number of springs are located around the lake,
but the best campsites are found at Ted’s Lake or Sand Lake, 0.3 mile to the north. Saucer may
exhibit at least partial winterkill due to its shallow depth. The lake is stocked with brook trout
and sustains very light fishing pressure.

Sharlee Lake, WR-57
Sharlee Lake is a pretty lake located on a high bench on the northwest side of Reader Lakes
Basin. The lake is surrounded by open meadows making it an ideal fly casting lake. Sharlee Lake
sits at 10,740 feet in elevation and is 9.4 surface acres with a maximum depth of only 4 feet. To
access the lake, take the Highline Trail west from the Chepeta Lake Trailhead or from the
trailhead at Reader Creek head north. Sharlee Lake is approximately 1.5 miles along the Highline
Trail from the Chepeta Lake Trailhead and 1.8 miles from the Reader Creek Trailhead. If you take
the Reader Creek Trailhead follow the trail to the second large meadow for 1.5 miles to the
Sharlee Lake outlet just before the trail crosses Reader Creek the second time. From here follow
the outlet upstream to Sharlee Lake for the remaining 0.3 mile. Campsites and horse feed are
abundant, but springs are uncommon. Sharlee Lake supports a population of cutthroat trout.
Fishing pressure is moderate.

Tamara Lake, WR-73
Tamara is a picturesque, remote lake which sits at the very head of the Rasmussen Lakes Basin
in the West Fork of the Whiterocks drainage. From Eric Lake (see Eric Lake access), continue up
the bottom of the basin, past Nellie Lake and up a steep, rocky slope through downed timber.
Total distance from the West Fork Trailhead is 4.2 miles, all of it is cross-country. Horseback
W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 21

access is, at best, very difficult and not recommended. Tamara Lake is triangular in shape with
talus slopes forming two of the sides. Large boulders make up the entire perimeter of the lake,
and the footing is treacherous. The lake is 7.1 acres, 10,960 feet in elevation, with a maximum
depth of 18 feet. Campsites are absent due to the rough terrain, and there is no spring water. All
camping amenities and horse feed are found in the bottom of Rasmussen Lakes Basin. Fishing
pressure is light for stocked cutthroat trout.

Taylor Lake, WR-8
Taylor Lake is a fairly large, deep lake located above timberline in an open, rocky cirque 2.2 miles
north of Queant Lake in the West Fork of the Whiterocks drainage. The trail comes within a few
hundred yards of the lake. Taylor can also be reached via the Chepeta Lake Trailhead across a
high, shallow saddle west of Reader Lakes Basin. Total distance from Chepeta Lake and the
West Fork Trailhead is 4.0 and 6.3 miles, respectively. Taylor Lake is 22.4 acres, 11,220 feet in
elevation, with a maximum depth of 53 feet. Campsites are scarce in the rough terrain
surrounding the lake, and there is no horse feed. A cluster of springs are located along the
northwest shore. Fly fishing is relatively easy, given the lack of large trees, which tend to inhibit
back-casting. The large rocks and low scraggly bushes along the shore, however, make for
difficult walking. Watch your step. Taylor Lake sustains moderate fishing pressure for stocked
brook trout.

Ted’s Lake, WR-44
This popular lake lies in the middle of a series of meadows in the East Fork Whiterocks River
drainage. Ted’s Lake sits at an elevation of 10,336 feet and is 14.1 surface acres with a
maximum depth of 20 feet. The lake can be accessed from either the Chepeta Lake Trailhead or
from the Paradise Lake side. From the Chepeta Lake Trailhead take the highline trail east for just
over 0.5 mile to where an old OHV trail hits the trail from the south. Take the OHV trail south to
where it crosses the East Fork Whiterocks River. Continue up the slope until you reach a trail
junction at the base of a wet meadow. Ted’s Lake sits 0.3 mile to the northeast. From the
Paradise Lake side take the old road to Cliff Lake (see Cliff Lake access). Just before the end of
the road an old OHV trail cuts north. Park and hike to the trail junction alluded to above then
continue to Ted’s Lake. Campsites and horse feed are plentiful, but good spring water can be
hard to find. Most of the shoreline is open and fly casting is nearly hassle-free. The relatively
wide expanses of shallow water close to shore tend to make trout a bit wary. Most people agree

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 22

that late evening is the most productive time for angling. Ted’s Lake is stocked with brook trout
and fishing pressure is moderate to heavy.

Upper Reader Lake, WR-66
Upper Reader Lake is a shallow, picturesque lake located approximately 0.7 mile northwest of
Horseshoe Lake at the head of Reader Basin. The lake sits at 10,960 feet in elevation and is 10.2
surface acres with a maximum depth of 9 feet. To access the lake take the Highline Trail from
the Chepeta Lake Trailhead or from the trailhead at Reader Creek to the large meadow at the
head of the drainage. From the trailhead at Reader Creek this will be the third large meadow
along the trail. At the bottom of this meadow the Highline Trail and Reader Creek Trail join. From
this intersection follow Reader Creek cross-country up the wet and rocky meadow north 1.4
miles to Upper Reader Lake. There are a few campsites near the lake and water can be found in
the inlet on the west side. There is limited horse feed at the lake itself but excellent feed in the
large meadow below the lake along Reader Creek. Reader Lake has winterkilled in the past and
was not actively managed as a fishery. However, we are presently stocking grayling on an
experimental basis and will assess the survival of this species in the lake. Cutthroat trout also
occasionally migrate into the lake from Reader Creek. Fishing pressure is light.

Upper Rock Lake, WR-14
Upper Rock Lake is the largest of the three Rock Lakes that lie northwest of Pole Creek Lake.
The lake sits in a shallow depression on a high flat bench at the base of the mountain 1.7 miles
northwest of Pole Creek Lake. Upper Rock Lake sits at 10,562 feet in elevation and is 33.4
surface acres with a maximum depth of 33 feet. Like many cirque lakes in the head of drainages
it can be Caribbean blue or milky red in color depending on snowpack, time of year and
precipitation. To access the lake see description for accessing Lower and Middle Rock lakes.
Continue from Middle Rock Lake north for 0.3 mile across boulder fields and a steep slope.
Campsites and horse feed are nonexistent at the lake and there are no obvious sources of
spring water. The water level of Upper Rock Lake fluctuates rather dramatically during some
years, and the lake winter kills regularly. The lake is stocked with cutthroat trout and fishing
pressure is light.

Walk-up Lake, WR-55
Walk-up Lake is a classic example of a glacially formed cirque lake. Located 2.7 miles northwest
of Chepeta Lake, Walk-up Lake sits in a deep bowl with surrounding cliffs towering a thousand
feet above the surface of the lake. The lake sits at 11,114 feet in elevation and is 18.4 surface
W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 23

acres with a maximum depth of 55 feet. To access the lake follow the trail from Chepeta Lake
that takes you to Mocassin and Papoose lakes. From Papoose cut over to Wigwam Lake then
hike up northwest through steep, rocky meadows to Walk-up Lake. A rocky cleft also leads due
north to Walk-up Lake from Figure Eight Lake. Follow the base of the mountain around to the
northwest to the lake. Expect this route to be steep initially before the hike gets a little easier.
Despite the abundance of rocks in the area, a few decent campsites can be located in small,
grassy swales. Horse feed is very scarce, but there is spring water away from the lake. The
shoreline is open, but footing is extremely treacherous on large, unstable boulders. Fishing
pressure is light for stocked brook trout.

Watkins Lake, WR-48
Watkins Lake is an irregularly shaped lake located in the East Fork Whiterocks River drainage
just over 100 yards east of Cliff Lake. The lake sits at 10,390 feet in elevation and is 18.4 surface
acres with a maximum depth of 36 feet. To access the lake see access description for Cliff
Lake. The southwest shore of the lake is composed of talus. Campsites are few in rough terrain
and there is little horse feed. A few springs are located on the lake's northeastern shore. Fishing
pressure is light for stocked brook trout.

Whiterocks Lake, WR-46
Whiterocks Lake lies at the head of the East Fork of the Whiterocks drainage, 3.5 miles east of
Chepeta Lake. The lake is used primarily for irrigation storage and experiences severe
drawdown during the course of the summer. Stocking has been discontinued due to the inability
of the lake to overwinter fish; however, a few trout may migrate into the reservoir from the inlet
stream. The size of Whiterocks Lake varies between 30 to 67 acres, depending on season and
water demand. Campsites, horse feed and spring water are located in the vicinity. Fishing
pressure is light.

Wigwam Lake, WR-54
Wigwam Lake is an impounded lake situated on a bench about 500 yards north of Chepeta Lake.
The lake sits at 10,625 feet in elevation and is 16.7 surface acres with a maximum depth of 21
feet. There is no trail to the lake, but access is quite easy if you follow the lake's outlet up from
where it flows into the northeastern arm of Chepeta. Campsites, horse feed and spring water are
all found in the immediate vicinity. The open shoreline makes for relaxed fly casting. Fishing
pressure is moderate for brook trout sustained through natural reproduction. Cutthroat trout

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 24

were also present in the lake in the past but no recent surveys have occurred to verify their
continued presence.

Wooley Lake, WR-40
This pretty lake lies at the head of a rough, heavily timbered basin in the East Fork Whiterocks
River drainage 0.9 mile east of Workman Lake. The lake sits at 10,680 feet in elevation and is
20.5 surface acres with a maximum depth of 42 feet. For access see descriptions for Ted’s Lake
and Workman Lake. Wooley Lake is surrounded by talus slides, boulder fields and rock strewn
pines. Campsites and horse feed are located in the meadows between Workman and Wooley
lakes. A number of springs are found against the toe of the mountain. A self-sustaining
population of brook trout inhabit the lake and fishing pressure is light.

Workman Lake, WR-50
Workman Lake is a relatively shallow, natural lake located 0.7 mile south of Ted’s Lake in the
East Fork Whiterocks River drainage. The lake sits at an elevation of 10,460 feet and is 20
surface acres with a maximum depth of only 12 feet. Workman Lake can be accessed from the
Paradise Park Reservoir side or the Chepeta Lake side. For access description from the Chepeta
Lake side see Ted’s Lake and for the Paradise side see Cliff Lake access. From the Chepeta
Lake side when you hit the trail junction for Ted’s Lake turn south instead of north and follow the
trail for 0.2 mile to another trail that heads west to Workman Lake. From Cliff Lake follow the old
OHV trail north for 1.5 miles to the Workman Lake outlet then follow the outlet upstream to the
lake. Despite heavy timber there are a few campsites around the lake. A marginal spring is
located between the lake's two inlets along the southeast shore. Horse feed is located in small
meadows that are close to the north, east and south shores of the lake.
Workman Lake supports populations of both brook and cutthroat trout sustained through
natural reproduction. Fishing pressure is light to moderate.

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 25

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 26

Brook trout gillnetting samples
Lake

Stocking
cycle

Other
species
present

Number
sampled

Mean
length
(inches)

Max length
(inches)

Mean wt
(lbs)

Max wt (lbs)

Denise (WR-8)

3

None

7

13.3

15.5

1.15

1.81

Watkins (WR-48)

2/3

None

62

13.2

17.7

0.90

2.02

Elbow (WR-58)

3

None

56

12.8

16.7

0.86

1.85

Eric (WR-76)

NR

CT

16

12.5

14.8

0.84

1.46

Ted’s (WR-44)

2/3

None

75

12.5

18.7

0.94

2.96

Workman (WR-50)

NR

CT

17

12.5

18.9

1.07

4.13

Taylor (WR-8)

5

None

33

12.2

16.1

0.81

1.98

a

NR

TG

40

12.2

15.2

0.66

1.46

Point (WR-6)

5

CT

54

11.7

14.8

0.64

1.20

Robb (WR-1)

2/3

None

31

11.7

15.9

0.49

2.12

Nellie (WR-25)

NR

CT

9

11.5

14.7

0.64

1.19

Becky (WR-77)

2/3

CT

39

11.3

13.1

0.44

0.89

Lower Rock (WR-17)

Queant (WR-4)

5

None

149

11.0

15.9

0.51

2.13

Chepeta (WR-64)

NR

CT

99

10.7

16.0

0.48

1.64

Cliff (WR-49)

b

5

TG,CT

85

10.6

13.7

0.46

1.05

Sand (WR-42)

NR

CT

81

10.5

14.6

0.45

1.23

Dollar (WR-43)

NR

CT

36

10.4

19.7

0.50

2.21

Pearl (WR-45)

NR

CT

76

10.4

13.6

0.40

0.78

Rassmussen 2 (WR-36)

5

None

75

10.3

13.4

0.39

0.88

Walk-up (WR-55)

5

None

10

9.9

11.2

0.30

0.46

Cleveland

5

CT

132

9.8

14.0

0.37

1.25

Wooley (WR-40)

5

CT

93

9.8

11.7

0.31

0.50

Wigwam (WR-54)

NR

CT

57

9.7

16.0

0.42

2.18

Rassmussen 1 (WR-35)

5

None

117

9.6

13.0

0.33

0.76

Larvae (WR-12)

2

None

17

9.6

14.0

0.31

1.01

Papoose (WR-52)

5

CT

22

8.5

11.6

0.26

0.64

Moccasin (WR-53)

NR

CT

100

8.5

14.3

0.25

1.04

Saucer (WR-41)

2/3

None

1

6.8

6.8

0.09

0.09

a Tiger trout are stocked every 5 years into Lower Rock.
b Tiger trout are stocked in addition to Brook Trout in Cliff Lake
NR = Sustained by natural reproduction
2/3 = For lakes with no natural reproduction and known to winterkill, lakes are stocked every 2nd and 3rd year instead of once
every 5 years to prevent long fishless stretches.

Table 1. Mean and maximum length and weight for brook trout sampled with gillnets 1960s to the present for lakes
in the Whiterocks River Drainage, Utah. (Note: data is sorted by mean length with color codes green = average length
> 12”, gold = average length 10” – 11” and blue average length < 10”.)

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 27

Cutthroat trout gillnetting samples
Stocking
cycle

Other
species
present

Mean
length
(inches)

Max length
(inches)

Lower Rock (WR-17)

NR

TG,BK

Katy (WR-34)

2/3

None

9

13.4

36

13.0

Cliff (WR-49)

NR

BK,TG

11

12.5

Cleveland (WR-7)

NR

Becky (WR-77)

NR

BK

8

BK

6

Ogden (WR-5)
Upper Rock (WR-14)

2/3

None

66

11.9

15.4

0.65

1.27

2/3

None

62

11.7

20.5

0.82

3.20

Chepeta (WR-64)

4

BK

35

11.5

16.5

0.56

1.54

Nellie (WR-75)

5

BK

19

11.1

14.6

0.57

1.21

Tamara (WR-73)

5

None

66

10.5

16.9

0.49

1.90

Lake

Number
sampled

Mean wt
(lbs)

Max wt (lbs)

16.5

1.24

1.83

14.8

0.75

1.17

15.0

0.65

1.11

12.1

15.1

0.64

1.08

12.1

13.4

0.63

0.90

Eric (WR-76)

NR

BK

18

10.3

13.5

0.37

0.71

Horseshoe (WR-67)

2/3

None

64

10.2

15.0

0.49

1.49

Angel (WR-19)

3

GRY, TGMK

20

10.2

17.3

0.39

2.04

Moccasin (WR-53)

5

BK

43

10.0

15.5

0.38

1.39

Ann (WR-74)

3

None

7

9.8

11.5

0.44

0.70

Hidden (WR-63)

2

None

13

9.6

12.7

0.32

0.59

Middle Rock (WR-67)

2/3

None

39

9.4

17.5

0.65

1.71

Pearl (WR-45)

2/3

BK

40

9.3

12.7

0.31

0.68

Wigwam (WR-54)

NR

BK

18

9.3

13.0

0.29

0.73

Sand (WR-42)

5

BK

40

9.3

12.1

0.29

0.57

Workman (WR-50)

NR

BK

105

9.2

14.2

0.35

1.08

Reader (WR-66)

MIG

GRY

30

9.2

11.8

0.34

0.78

Dollar (WR-43)

NR

BK

52

9.1

10.8

0.26

0.44

Sharlee (WR-57)

NR

None

148

8.4

13.4

0.22

0.64

Hell Hole (WR-65)

3

None

15

8.1

10.2

0.24

0.36

Figure Eight (WR-56)

NR

None

56

7.7

11.7

0.20

0.57

NR = Sustained by natural reproduction
MIG = Fish known to migrate from stream into lake.
2/3 = For lakes with no natural reproduction and known to winterkill, lakes are stocked every 2nd and 3rd year instead of once
every 5 years to prevent long fishless stretches.

Table 2. Mean and maximum length and weight for cutthroat trout sampled with gillnets 1960s to the present for
lakes in the Whiterocks River Drainage, Utah. (Note: data is sorted by mean length with color codes green = average
length > 12”, gold = average length 10” – 11” and blue average length < 10”.)

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 28

Grayling gillnetting samples
Lake

Stocking
cycle

Other
species
present

Number
sampled

Mean
length
(inches)

Max length
(inches)

Mean wt
(lbs)

Max wt (lbs)

Dead (WR-29)

3

None

16

12.4

13.0

0.67

0.79

Cirque (WR-33)

3

None

15

12.0

13.7

0.59

0.87

Angel (WR-19)

NR

CT, TGMK

46

10.7

14.5

0.38

1.00

9.2

10.3

0.23

0.38

Deadfall

3

None

54

Upper Reader (WR-66)

3

CT

0

None sampled

Johnson (WR-30)

3

None

0

None sampled

NR = Sustained by natural reproduction.

Table 3. Mean and maximum length and weight for grayling sampled with gillnets 1960s to the present for lakes in
the Whiterocks River Drainage, Utah. (Note: data is sorted by mean length with color codes green = average length >
12”, gold = average length 10” – 11” and blue average length < 10”.)

W H I T E R O C K S R I V E R D R A I N A G E | 29

